docs/vapi/VAPI_TOOLS_CONFIGURATION.md, before:

# Vapi Dashboard - Tools Configuration Guide

**Complete configuration for all 6 Sally Love Real Estate voice agent functions**

**Base URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev`

---

## 📋 Quick Reference

| Tool Name | Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|-----------|----------|--------|---------|
| `check_property` | `/functions/check_property` | POST | Search property listings |
| `get_agent_info` | `/functions/get_agent_info` | POST | Get agent information |
| `route_to_agent` | `/functions/route_to_agent` | POST | Transfer call to agent |
| `create_buyer_lead` | `/functions/create_buyer_lead` | POST | Create buyer lead |
| `create_seller_lead` | `/functions/create_seller_lead` | POST | Create seller lead |
| `send_notification` | `/functions/send_notification` | POST | Send SMS notifications |

---

## Tool 1: check_property

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `check_property`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/check_property`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `address` | string | No | Property street address |
| `city` | string | No | City name (e.g., "Ocala", "Dunnellon") |
| `state` | string | No | State abbreviation (default: "FL") |
| `zip_code` | string | No | ZIP code |
| `mls_number` | string | No | MLS listing number |
| `property_type` | string | No | Type of property (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `min_price` | number | No | Minimum price |
| `max_price` | number | No | Maximum price |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Minimum number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Minimum number of bathrooms |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether the request succeeded |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Voice-friendly message for AI |
| `count` | integer | No | `$.data.count` | Number of properties found |
| `properties` | array | No | `$.results` | Array of property listings |
| `agent_name` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.name` | Listing agent name (single property only) |
| `agent_phone` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.phone` | Listing agent phone for transfer |
| `agent_email` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.email` | Listing agent email |
| `transfer_phone` | string | No | `$.data.transfer_phone` | Direct phone number for call transfer (single property only) |
| `broker_phone` | string | No | `$.data.broker.phone` | Broker fallback phone (Jeff: 352-399-2010) |
| `broker_name` | string | No | `$.data.broker.name` | Brokerage name (single property only) |

**Important Notes:**
- `listing_agent` and `transfer_phone` in `data` are only present when exactly 1 property is found
- When multiple properties are found, agent data is still available in each property object: `$.results[0].agentName`, `$.results[0].agentPhone`, etc.
- Use `transfer_phone` or `agent_phone` with `route_to_agent` function for call transfers
- Use `broker_phone` as fallback if agent unavailable (always 352-399-2010 - Jeff Beatty)
- Each property in `results[]` includes: `agentName`, `agentPhone`, `agentEmail`, `brokerPhone` fields

### Description

```
Search for properties in BoldTrail CRM by address, city, price range, bedrooms, bathrooms, or MLS number. Returns property details including listing agent information for call transfers. Use this when caller asks about specific properties or wants to see what's available. When a single property is found, agent contact information is included for immediate transfer capability.
```

---

## Tool 2: get_agent_info

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `get_agent_info`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/get_agent_info`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `agent_name` | string | No | Agent's name (e.g., "Sally Love", "Jeff") |
| `agent_id` | string | No | Agent's unique ID from CRM |
| `specialty` | string | No | Agent specialty (buyer_agent, listing_agent, commercial, luxury) |
| `city` | string | No | Service area/city (e.g., "Ocala") |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether the request succeeded |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Voice-friendly message about agents |
| `agent_count` | integer | No | `$.data.count` | Number of agents found |
| `agents` | array | No | `$.results` | Array of agent objects |
| `agent_name` | string | No | `$.results[0].firstName` | First agent's name |
| `agent_phone` | string | No | `$.results[0].phone` | First agent's phone |
| `agent_id` | string | No | `$.results[0].id` | First agent's ID |

### Description

```
Get information about real estate agents including contact details, specialties, service areas, and availability. Use when caller asks about specific agents or needs help from a specialist.
```

---

## Tool 3: route_to_agent

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `route_to_agent`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/route_to_agent`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `agent_id` | string | **Yes** | Agent's unique ID from CRM |
| `agent_name` | string | **Yes** | Agent's name (e.g., "Sally Love", "Jeff") |
| `agent_phone` | string | **Yes** | Agent's phone number |
| `caller_name` | string | No | Name of the person calling |
| `reason` | string | No | Reason for transfer (e.g., "property inquiry", "commission question", "urgent request") |

### Response Body

**Important:** This function returns a `destination` object at the root level for Vapi's dynamic transfer mechanism. Vapi automatically recognizes this format and executes the transfer - you typically don't need to extract any variables.

**Response Format:**
```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+1234567890",
    "message": "Transferring you to Agent Name now. Please hold."
  }
}
```

**If you need to extract variables (optional):**

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `destination` | object | No | `$.destination` | Transfer destination object (Vapi handles automatically) |
| `destination_number` | string | No | `$.destination.number` | Phone number to transfer to |
| `transfer_message` | string | No | `$.destination.message` | Message to play during transfer |

### Description

```
Transfer the call to a specific real estate agent or broker. Use when caller requests to speak with someone, has complex questions, or needs immediate assistance. NEVER discuss commission rates - always transfer to agent.
```

---

## Tool 4: create_buyer_lead

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `create_buyer_lead`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_buyer_lead`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `first_name` | string | **Yes** | Buyer's first name |
| `last_name` | string | **Yes** | Buyer's last name |
| `phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number (will be validated and formatted) |
| `email` | string | No | Email address |
| `property_type` | string | No | Preferred property type (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `location_preference` | string | No | Preferred location/area (e.g., "Ocala", "Dunnellon", "Silver Springs") |
| `min_price` | number | No | Minimum budget |
| `max_price` | number | No | Maximum budget |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Desired number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Desired number of bathrooms |
| `timeframe` | string | No | When they want to buy ("ASAP", "1-3 months", "3-6 months", "6+ months") |
| `pre_approved` | boolean | No | Whether they are pre-approved for a mortgage |
| `notes` | string | No | Additional notes or special requirements |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether lead was created |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message for buyer |
| `contact_id` | string | No | `$.data.contact_id` | Created contact ID in BoldTrail |

### Description

```
Create a buyer lead in BoldTrail CRM. Collect contact information, property preferences, budget, timeline, and pre-approval status. Always get phone number and at least basic preferences before creating the lead.
```

---

## Tool 5: create_seller_lead

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `create_seller_lead`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_seller_lead`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `first_name` | string | **Yes** | Seller's first name |
| `last_name` | string | **Yes** | Seller's last name |
| `phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number (will be validated and formatted) |
| `email` | string | No | Email address |
| `property_address` | string | **Yes** | Full property address to be sold |
| `city` | string | **Yes** | City |
| `state` | string | **Yes** | State (default: "FL") |
| `zip_code` | string | **Yes** | ZIP code |
| `property_type` | string | No | Property type (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Number of bathrooms |
| `square_feet` | integer | No | Property square footage |
| `year_built` | integer | No | Year property was built |
| `reason_for_selling` | string | No | Reason for selling (downsizing, relocating, upgrading, etc.) |
| `timeframe` | string | No | When they want to sell ("ASAP", "1-3 months", "3-6 months", "6+ months") |
| `estimated_value` | number | No | Owner's estimated property value |
| `notes` | string | No | Additional notes about property condition or special circumstances |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether lead was created |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message for seller |
| `contact_id` | string | No | `$.data.contact_id` | Created contact ID in BoldTrail |

### Description

```
Create a seller lead in BoldTrail CRM. Collect contact information, property details, condition, timeline, and selling motivation. NEVER discuss commission rates - if asked, transfer to agent immediately.
```

---

## Tool 6: send_notification

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `send_notification`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/send_notification`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `recipient_phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number to send SMS to |
| `message` | string | **Yes** | Message content to send |
| `notification_type` | string | No | Type of notification ("sms", "email", "both") - default: "sms" |
| `recipient_email` | string | No | Email address (required if notification_type is "email" or "both") |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether notification was sent |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message |
| `delivery_status` | string | No | `$.data.delivery_status` | Delivery status |

### Description

```
Send SMS or email notifications. Used internally to send confirmations to Sally, Jeff, and customers after creating leads or important events. Do not use this directly unless specifically needed.
```

---

## 🔧 Authorization Configuration

For all tools, you typically don't need special authorization in Vapi if your endpoints are publicly accessible. However, if you're using a server secret:

### Option 1: No Authorization (Public Endpoints)
- Leave Authorization section **collapsed** or set to "None"

### Option 2: Server URL Secret (If Configured)
- **Type:** Bearer Token or Custom Header
- **Header Name:** `Authorization` (if using Bearer)
- **Value:** Your Vapi API key (set in Assistant Settings → Server URL Secret)

---

## 📝 Request Headers (Optional)

You can add custom headers if needed. For most cases, leave this section **collapsed** or empty. The FastAPI endpoints will handle content type automatically.

If you need to add headers:
- Click **"+ Add Header"**
- **Header Name:** `Content-Type`
- **Header Value:** `application/json`

---

## 🎯 Step-by-Step Upload Instructions

### For Each Tool:

1. **Go to Vapi Dashboard** → Your Assistant → Tools/Functions tab
2. **Click "Add Tool"** or "Create Function"
3. **Base Configuration Section:**
   - Enter **Tool Name** (exactly as shown above)
   - Enter **Request URL** (full URL from above)
   - Select **POST** as HTTP Method
4. **Request Body Section:**
   - Click **"+ Add Property"** for each parameter
   - Enter property name, type, required status, and description
   - Mark required fields with checkbox
5. **Response Body Section:**
   - Click **"+ Add Property"** for each variable to extract
   - Enter variable name, type, and JSON path
6. **Add Description:**
   - Copy the description from above into the description field
7. **Save** the tool
8. **Test** with sample data using Vapi's test feature

---

## 🔄 Recommended Upload Order

1. **check_property** - Most commonly used
2. **get_agent_info** - Needed for routing
3. **create_buyer_lead** - Core functionality
4. **create_seller_lead** - Core functionality
5. **route_to_agent** - Escalation
6. **send_notification** - Internal use (optional to expose)

---

## ✅ Validation Checklist

After uploading each tool, verify:

- [ ] Tool name matches exactly (case-sensitive)
- [ ] URL is correct and accessible
- [ ] HTTP method is POST
- [ ] All required parameters are marked as required
- [ ] Response variables have correct JSON paths
- [ ] Description is clear and complete
- [ ] Test call returns expected response

---

## 🧪 Testing in Vapi Dashboard

For each tool, use the **"Test"** button with sample data:

### Test check_property (Single Property - with agent data):
```json
{
  "address": "1914 HUX COURT",
  "city": "THE VILLAGES",
  "state": "FL"
}
```
**Expected Response:** Includes `data.listing_agent` and `data.transfer_phone` for call transfer

### Test check_property (Multiple Properties):
```json
{
  "city": "THE VILLAGES",
  "state": "FL"
}
```
**Expected Response:** Multiple properties, no agent data in `data` (agent info in `results[]` array)

### Test get_agent_info:
```json
{
  "city": "Ocala"
}
```

### Test create_buyer_lead:
```json
{
  "first_name": "John",
  "last_name": "Smith",
  "phone": "+13525551234",
  "property_type": "single-family",
  "location_preference": "Ocala",
  "min_price": 200000,
  "max_price": 400000
}
```

### Test create_seller_lead:
```json
{
  "first_name": "Jane",
  "last_name": "Doe",
  "phone": "+13525559876",
  "property_address": "123 Main St",
  "city": "Ocala",
  "state": "FL",
  "zip_code": "34471"
}
```

### Test route_to_agent:
```json
{
  "agent_id": "1193050",
  "agent_name": "Agent Name",
  "agent_phone": "+13523992010",
  "reason": "property inquiry"
}
```
**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+13523992010",
    "message": "Transferring you to Agent Name now. Please hold."
  }
}
```
**Note:** Vapi automatically recognizes the `destination` object and executes the transfer. The call will be transferred to the number specified.

### Test send_notification:
```json
{
  "recipient_phone": "+13525551234",
  "message": "Test notification from Vapi",
  "notification_type": "sms"
}
```

---

## 🚨 Important Notes

1. **All endpoints use POST method** - Even for queries
2. **Server URL:** Use `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev` (production) or your local URL for testing
3. **Required fields:** Make sure to mark all required fields in Vapi dashboard
4. **JSON Paths:** Use JSONPath syntax (e.g., `$.success`, `$.data.contact_id`, `$.results[0].id`)
5. **Error Handling:** Vapi will handle errors automatically based on the `success` field in responses
6. **Voice Responses:** The `message` field contains voice-friendly text for the AI to speak

---

## 📊 Response Format (All Tools)

**Most tools** return this standard format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "Voice-friendly message for AI to speak",
  "data": {
    // Tool-specific data
    // For check_property with single result: includes listing_agent, transfer_phone, broker
  },
  "results": [], // For array responses (properties, agents, etc.)
  "error": "Error message if failed (optional)"
}
```

**Exception: `route_to_agent`** returns a special format for Vapi's dynamic transfers:

```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+1234567890",
    "message": "Transferring you now. Please hold."
  }
}
```

Vapi automatically recognizes the `destination` object and executes the transfer. No variables need to be extracted from this response - Vapi handles it automatically.

### check_property Specific Notes:

**Single Property Match:**
- `data.listing_agent` contains agent info for easy access
- `data.transfer_phone` provides direct phone for `route_to_agent`
- `data.broker` contains fallback contact (Jeff)

**Multiple Properties Match:**
- Agent data is in each property object: `results[0].agentName`, `results[0].agentPhone`, etc.
- No `data.listing_agent` object (only for single matches)
- Each property has full agent contact info in the `results[]` array

---

**Last Updated:** December 14, 2025  
**Production URL:** https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev  
**API Documentation:** https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/docs

---

## 🎯 Quick Copy-Paste URLs

```
check_property: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/check_property
get_agent_info: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/get_agent_info
route_to_agent: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/route_to_agent
create_buyer_lead: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_buyer_lead
create_seller_lead: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_seller_lead
send_notification: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/send_notification
```

---

**Status:** ✅ All tools validated and ready for Vapi dashboard upload

Commit message:

Enhanced agent transfer functionality by implementing roster validation, fallback mechanisms, and notification alerts for transfer failures. Updated documentation to reflect changes in agent lookup processes and added new test cases for improved coverage.

docs/vapi/VAPI_TOOLS_CONFIGURATION.md, after:

# Vapi Dashboard - Tools Configuration Guide

**Complete configuration for all 6 Sally Love Real Estate voice agent functions**

**Base URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev`

---

## 📋 Quick Reference

| Tool Name | Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|-----------|----------|--------|---------|
| `check_property` | `/functions/check_property` | POST | Search property listings |
| `get_agent_info` | `/functions/get_agent_info` | POST | Get agent information |
| `route_to_agent` | `/functions/route_to_agent` | POST | Transfer call to agent |
| `create_buyer_lead` | `/functions/create_buyer_lead` | POST | Create buyer lead |
| `create_seller_lead` | `/functions/create_seller_lead` | POST | Create seller lead |
| `send_notification` | `/functions/send_notification` | POST | Send SMS notifications |

---

## Tool 1: check_property

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `check_property`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/check_property`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `address` | string | No | Property street address |
| `city` | string | No | City name (e.g., "Ocala", "Dunnellon") |
| `state` | string | No | State abbreviation (default: "FL") |
| `zip_code` | string | No | ZIP code |
| `mls_number` | string | No | MLS listing number |
| `property_type` | string | No | Type of property (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `min_price` | number | No | Minimum price |
| `max_price` | number | No | Maximum price |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Minimum number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Minimum number of bathrooms |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether the request succeeded |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Voice-friendly message for AI |
| `count` | integer | No | `$.data.count` | Number of properties found |
| `properties` | array | No | `$.results` | Array of property listings |
| `agent_name` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.name` | Listing agent name (single property only) |
| `agent_phone` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.phone` | Listing agent phone for transfer |
| `agent_email` | string | No | `$.data.listing_agent.email` | Listing agent email |
| `transfer_phone` | string | No | `$.data.transfer_phone` | Direct phone number for call transfer (single property only) |
| `broker_phone` | string | No | `$.data.broker.phone` | Broker fallback phone (Jeff: 352-399-2010) |
| `broker_name` | string | No | `$.data.broker.name` | Brokerage name (single property only) |

**Important Notes:**
- `listing_agent` and `transfer_phone` in `data` are only present when exactly 1 property is found
- When multiple properties are found, agent data is still available in each property object: `$.results[0].agentName`, `$.results[0].agentPhone`, etc.
- Use `transfer_phone` or `agent_phone` with `route_to_agent` function for call transfers
- Use `broker_phone` as fallback if agent unavailable (always 352-399-2010 - Jeff Beatty)
- Each property in `results[]` includes: `agentName`, `agentPhone`, `agentEmail`, `brokerPhone` fields

### Description

```
Search for properties in BoldTrail CRM by address, city, price range, bedrooms, bathrooms, or MLS number. Returns property details including listing agent information for call transfers. Use this when caller asks about specific properties or wants to see what's available. When a single property is found, agent contact information is included for immediate transfer capability.
```

---

## Tool 2: get_agent_info

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `get_agent_info`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/get_agent_info`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `agent_name` | string | No | Agent's name (e.g., "Sally Love", "Jeff") |
| `agent_id` | string | No | Agent's unique ID from CRM |
| `specialty` | string | No | Agent specialty (buyer_agent, listing_agent, commercial, luxury) |
| `city` | string | No | Service area/city (e.g., "Ocala") |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether the request succeeded |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Voice-friendly message about agents |
| `agent_count` | integer | No | `$.data.count` | Number of agents found |
| `roster_matched` | boolean | No | `$.data.roster_matched` | True if agent in roster; false if fallback used |
| `agents` | array | No | `$.results` | Array of agent objects |
| `agent_name` | string | No | `$.results[0].name` | First agent's full name (for route_to_agent) |
| `agent_phone` | string | No | `$.results[0].phone` | First agent's phone (for route_to_agent) |
| `agent_id` | string | No | `$.results[0].id` | First agent's ID |

### Description

```
Get agent info from roster. MANDATORY before route_to_agent when agent phone not from check_property. Use agent_name when caller requests specific person; omit for any agent. Returns results[0].name and results[0].phone for transfer.
```

---

## Tool 3: route_to_agent

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `route_to_agent`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/route_to_agent`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `agent_id` | string | **Yes** | Agent's unique ID from CRM |
| `agent_name` | string | **Yes** | Agent's name (e.g., "Sally Love", "Jeff") |
| `agent_phone` | string | **Yes** | Agent's phone number |
| `caller_name` | string | No | Name of the person calling |
| `reason` | string | No | Reason for transfer (e.g., "property inquiry", "commission question", "urgent request") |

### Response Body

**Important:** This function returns a `destination` object at the root level for Vapi's dynamic transfer mechanism. Vapi automatically recognizes this format and executes the transfer - you typically don't need to extract any variables.

**Response Format:**
```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+1234567890",
    "message": "Transferring you to Agent Name now. Please hold."
  }
}
```

**If you need to extract variables (optional):**

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `destination` | object | No | `$.destination` | Transfer destination object (Vapi handles automatically) |
| `destination_number` | string | No | `$.destination.number` | Phone number to transfer to |
| `transfer_message` | string | No | `$.destination.message` | Message to play during transfer |

### Description

```
Transfer the call to a specific real estate agent or broker. Use when caller requests to speak with someone, has complex questions, or needs immediate assistance. NEVER discuss commission rates - always transfer to agent.
```

---

## Tool 4: create_buyer_lead

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `create_buyer_lead`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_buyer_lead`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `first_name` | string | **Yes** | Buyer's first name |
| `last_name` | string | **Yes** | Buyer's last name |
| `phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number (will be validated and formatted) |
| `email` | string | No | Email address |
| `property_type` | string | No | Preferred property type (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `location_preference` | string | No | Preferred location/area (e.g., "Ocala", "Dunnellon", "Silver Springs") |
| `min_price` | number | No | Minimum budget |
| `max_price` | number | No | Maximum budget |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Desired number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Desired number of bathrooms |
| `timeframe` | string | No | When they want to buy ("ASAP", "1-3 months", "3-6 months", "6+ months") |
| `pre_approved` | boolean | No | Whether they are pre-approved for a mortgage |
| `notes` | string | No | Additional notes or special requirements |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether lead was created |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message for buyer |
| `contact_id` | string | No | `$.data.contact_id` | Created contact ID in BoldTrail |

### Description

```
Create a buyer lead in BoldTrail CRM. Collect contact information, property preferences, budget, timeline, and pre-approval status. Always get phone number and at least basic preferences before creating the lead.
```

---

## Tool 5: create_seller_lead

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `create_seller_lead`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_seller_lead`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `first_name` | string | **Yes** | Seller's first name |
| `last_name` | string | **Yes** | Seller's last name |
| `phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number (will be validated and formatted) |
| `email` | string | No | Email address |
| `property_address` | string | **Yes** | Full property address to be sold |
| `city` | string | **Yes** | City |
| `state` | string | **Yes** | State (default: "FL") |
| `zip_code` | string | **Yes** | ZIP code |
| `property_type` | string | No | Property type (single-family, condo, townhouse, land) |
| `bedrooms` | integer | No | Number of bedrooms |
| `bathrooms` | number | No | Number of bathrooms |
| `square_feet` | integer | No | Property square footage |
| `year_built` | integer | No | Year property was built |
| `reason_for_selling` | string | No | Reason for selling (downsizing, relocating, upgrading, etc.) |
| `timeframe` | string | No | When they want to sell ("ASAP", "1-3 months", "3-6 months", "6+ months") |
| `estimated_value` | number | No | Owner's estimated property value |
| `notes` | string | No | Additional notes about property condition or special circumstances |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether lead was created |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message for seller |
| `contact_id` | string | No | `$.data.contact_id` | Created contact ID in BoldTrail |

### Description

```
Create a seller lead in BoldTrail CRM. Collect contact information, property details, condition, timeline, and selling motivation. NEVER discuss commission rates - if asked, transfer to agent immediately.
```

---

## Tool 6: send_notification

### Base Configuration

- **Tool Name:** `send_notification`
- **Request URL:** `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/send_notification`
- **Request HTTP Method:** `POST`

### Request Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and add the following properties:

| Property Name | Type | Required | Description |
|---------------|------|----------|-------------|
| `recipient_phone` | string | **Yes** | Phone number to send SMS to |
| `message` | string | **Yes** | Message content to send |
| `notification_type` | string | No | Type of notification ("sms", "email", "both") - default: "sms" |
| `recipient_email` | string | No | Email address (required if notification_type is "email" or "both") |

### Response Body

Click **"+ Add Property"** and extract:

| Variable | Type | Required | JSON Path | Description |
|----------|------|----------|-----------|-------------|
| `success` | boolean | Yes | `$.success` | Whether notification was sent |
| `message` | string | Yes | `$.message` | Confirmation message |
| `delivery_status` | string | No | `$.data.delivery_status` | Delivery status |

### Description

```
Send SMS or email notifications. Used internally to send confirmations to Sally, Jeff, and customers after creating leads or important events. Do not use this directly unless specifically needed.
```

---

## 🔧 Authorization Configuration

For all tools, you typically don't need special authorization in Vapi if your endpoints are publicly accessible. However, if you're using a server secret:

### Option 1: No Authorization (Public Endpoints)
- Leave Authorization section **collapsed** or set to "None"

### Option 2: Server URL Secret (If Configured)
- **Type:** Bearer Token or Custom Header
- **Header Name:** `Authorization` (if using Bearer)
- **Value:** Your Vapi API key (set in Assistant Settings → Server URL Secret)

---

## 📝 Request Headers (Optional)

You can add custom headers if needed. For most cases, leave this section **collapsed** or empty. The FastAPI endpoints will handle content type automatically.

If you need to add headers:
- Click **"+ Add Header"**
- **Header Name:** `Content-Type`
- **Header Value:** `application/json`

---

## 🎯 Step-by-Step Upload Instructions

### For Each Tool:

1. **Go to Vapi Dashboard** → Your Assistant → Tools/Functions tab
2. **Click "Add Tool"** or "Create Function"
3. **Base Configuration Section:**
   - Enter **Tool Name** (exactly as shown above)
   - Enter **Request URL** (full URL from above)
   - Select **POST** as HTTP Method
4. **Request Body Section:**
   - Click **"+ Add Property"** for each parameter
   - Enter property name, type, required status, and description
   - Mark required fields with checkbox
5. **Response Body Section:**
   - Click **"+ Add Property"** for each variable to extract
   - Enter variable name, type, and JSON path
6. **Add Description:**
   - Copy the description from above into the description field
7. **Save** the tool
8. **Test** with sample data using Vapi's test feature

---

## 🔄 Recommended Upload Order

1. **check_property** - Most commonly used
2. **get_agent_info** - Needed for routing
3. **create_buyer_lead** - Core functionality
4. **create_seller_lead** - Core functionality
5. **route_to_agent** - Escalation
6. **send_notification** - Internal use (optional to expose)

---

## ✅ Validation Checklist

After uploading each tool, verify:

- [ ] Tool name matches exactly (case-sensitive)
- [ ] URL is correct and accessible
- [ ] HTTP method is POST
- [ ] All required parameters are marked as required
- [ ] Response variables have correct JSON paths
- [ ] Description is clear and complete
- [ ] Test call returns expected response

---

## 🧪 Testing in Vapi Dashboard

For each tool, use the **"Test"** button with sample data:

### Test check_property (Single Property - with agent data):
```json
{
  "address": "1914 HUX COURT",
  "city": "THE VILLAGES",
  "state": "FL"
}
```
**Expected Response:** Includes `data.listing_agent` and `data.transfer_phone` for call transfer

### Test check_property (Multiple Properties):
```json
{
  "city": "THE VILLAGES",
  "state": "FL"
}
```
**Expected Response:** Multiple properties, no agent data in `data` (agent info in `results[]` array)

### Test get_agent_info:
```json
{
  "city": "Ocala"
}
```

### Test create_buyer_lead:
```json
{
  "first_name": "John",
  "last_name": "Smith",
  "phone": "+13525551234",
  "property_type": "single-family",
  "location_preference": "Ocala",
  "min_price": 200000,
  "max_price": 400000
}
```

### Test create_seller_lead:
```json
{
  "first_name": "Jane",
  "last_name": "Doe",
  "phone": "+13525559876",
  "property_address": "123 Main St",
  "city": "Ocala",
  "state": "FL",
  "zip_code": "34471"
}
```

### Test route_to_agent:
```json
{
  "agent_id": "1193050",
  "agent_name": "Agent Name",
  "agent_phone": "+13523992010",
  "reason": "property inquiry"
}
```
**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+13523992010",
    "message": "Transferring you to Agent Name now. Please hold."
  }
}
```
**Note:** Vapi automatically recognizes the `destination` object and executes the transfer. The call will be transferred to the number specified.

### Test send_notification:
```json
{
  "recipient_phone": "+13525551234",
  "message": "Test notification from Vapi",
  "notification_type": "sms"
}
```

---

## 🚨 Important Notes

1. **All endpoints use POST method** - Even for queries
2. **Server URL:** Use `https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev` (production) or your local URL for testing
3. **Required fields:** Make sure to mark all required fields in Vapi dashboard
4. **JSON Paths:** Use JSONPath syntax (e.g., `$.success`, `$.data.contact_id`, `$.results[0].id`)
5. **Error Handling:** Vapi will handle errors automatically based on the `success` field in responses
6. **Voice Responses:** The `message` field contains voice-friendly text for the AI to speak

---

## 📊 Response Format (All Tools)

**Most tools** return this standard format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "Voice-friendly message for AI to speak",
  "data": {
    // Tool-specific data
    // For check_property with single result: includes listing_agent, transfer_phone, broker
  },
  "results": [], // For array responses (properties, agents, etc.)
  "error": "Error message if failed (optional)"
}
```

**Exception: `route_to_agent`** returns a special format for Vapi's dynamic transfers:

```json
{
  "destination": {
    "type": "number",
    "number": "+1234567890",
    "message": "Transferring you now. Please hold."
  }
}
```

Vapi automatically recognizes the `destination` object and executes the transfer. No variables need to be extracted from this response - Vapi handles it automatically.

### check_property Specific Notes:

**Single Property Match:**
- `data.listing_agent` contains agent info for easy access
- `data.transfer_phone` provides direct phone for `route_to_agent`
- `data.broker` contains fallback contact (Jeff)

**Multiple Properties Match:**
- Agent data is in each property object: `results[0].agentName`, `results[0].agentPhone`, etc.
- No `data.listing_agent` object (only for single matches)
- Each property has full agent contact info in the `results[]` array

---

**Last Updated:** December 14, 2025  
**Production URL:** https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev  
**API Documentation:** https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/docs

---

## 🎯 Quick Copy-Paste URLs

```
check_property: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/check_property
get_agent_info: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/get_agent_info
route_to_agent: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/route_to_agent
create_buyer_lead: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_buyer_lead
create_seller_lead: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/create_seller_lead
send_notification: https://sally-love-voice-agent.fly.dev/functions/send_notification
```

---

**Status:** ✅ All tools validated and ready for Vapi dashboard upload
